[Maximilian Schwarzmüller] Now with
the conditional content covered here,
before we continue,
I wanna restructure the expenses component a little bit.
And I actually wanna extract that list logic
into a new component
to again, make that expenses component a little bit leaner.
Therefore, I'll add a expenses list JS file,
and also expenses list dot CSS file
which you also find attached.
And you can already download my CSS file
and copy the styles into your expenses list CSS file.
In the expenses list JS file,
I will then add a constant expenses list
which receives props and return something.
And of course, we export this expenses list
and we can if we want to also import React from react.
But again, that is optional.
Now you're in expenses list,
I wanna output my expenses list.
I will not filter in there.
I will keep the filtering logic in expenses
since that's also where I managed the filtered year
but I will take this fallback content, this if check,
I will take all of that
and move that into my expenses list component.
That means that we also, of course,
wanna import the expense item
from ./ExpenseItem here
since I'm using that component here.
And the filtered expenses no longer exist here.
I just wanna get, let's say, my items here or expenses.
It's up to you. I'll name it items
as props
like this.
Now in expenses JS,
that, of course, means that here
I now wanna output my expenses list
down there.
And of course, we therefore also wanna import expenses list
from the expenses list file
and we can get rid of the expense item import.
And the filtered expenses should now
be passed to expenses list through the items prop,
which I'm using inside of expenses list.
Like this.
Now inside of the expenses list JS file,
I also want to make a couple of changes now.
Of course, we need to return some JSX
but I want to return an unordered list here
and actually give that list a class name
of expenses-list.
This is a class to find here in my CSS file
and therefore, we also wanna import
this expenses list CSS file into the expenses list JS file.
And instead of this unordered list,
I now wanna output
my map here,
my expense item array.
So we'll again, grab that
and render this dynamically here like this.
And I will handle this if case a little bit differently now.
I will add a if check
but I'll check if props items length is equal to zero.
So if we have no items and if that's the case,
I will simply return a totally different JSX snippet
because that's yet another way
of handling conditional content.
If what your component returns changes entirely
based on different conditions, you can use this approach.
It would have not been appropriate here
in expenses JS before,
because only a part of the JSX snippet,
which we returned changed.
So there, the approach I showed
in the last lecture was better,
but if your entire JSX content changes,
when data is missing,
you can always add a if check where you return
a different JSX block if some condition is met.
And here, I simply want to return an h2 tag
with a class name of expenses-list__ fallback
with a text of found no expenses.
So that's what this component, expenses list, will render
if we got no expenses.
Hence, we can also get rid of that variable here.
And then with that,
we see there's found no expenses text
or the filtered list if we switch.
But now, with help of this extra component,
which uses a different logic for rendering
or for returning different JSX code,
and we now also got a little bit
of a leaner expenses JS file again.
Now one additional tweak, which I want to make here
which I almost forgot is that
since I'm using unordered list here now
for semantic reasons in the expense item component,
I actually wanna switch away
from having a div being rendered to a list item instead.
So I will just wrap this entire card here
with a list item
and visually this doesn't change anything
but semantically this is a little bit better.
So that's just another tiny tweak
which I wanted to make here.